v6.5.6: add release notes (#15576)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.5.6.md

    - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM [#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Add the `alive` and `leak` monitoring dimensions for the `apply_router` and `raft_router` metrics [#15357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15357) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

+ PD

    - Add monitoring metrics such as `Status` and `Sync Progress` for `DR Auto-Sync` on the Grafana dashboard [#6975](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6975) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - During restoring a snapshot backup, BR retries when it encounters certain network errors [#48528](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48528) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Introduce a new integration test for Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR) in the `delete range` scenario, enhancing PITR stability  [#47738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47738) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - Support the [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TSO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) syntax [#48372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48372) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support the [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TSO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/sql-statement-flashback-cluster) syntax [#48372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48372) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
```

        - Enable automatic retry of Region scatter during snapshot recovery when encountering timeout failures or cancellations of Region scatter [#47236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47236) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - BR can pause Region merging by setting the `merge-schedule-limit` configuration to 0  [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - BR can pause Region merging by setting the `merge-schedule-limit` configuration to `0` [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    - Fix the incorrect cost estimation caused by an excessively large `N` in `LIMIT N` [#43285](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43285) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the panic issue that might occur when constructing TopN structure for statistics [#35948](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35948) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that the result of `COUNT(INT)` calculated by MPP might be incorrect [#48643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48643) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that panic might occur when `tidb_enable_ordered_result_mode` is enabled [#45044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45044) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the optimizer mistakenly selects IndexFullScan to reduce sort introduced by window functions [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the result might be incorrect when predicates are pushed down to common table expressions [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that executing `UNION ALL` with table Dual as the first subnode might cause an error [#48755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48755) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that executing `UNION ALL` with the DUAL table Dual as the first subnode might cause an error [#48755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48755) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - Fix the issue that column pruning can cause panic in specific situations [#47331](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47331) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue of possible syntax error when a common table expression (CTE) containing aggregate or window functions is referenced by other recursive CTEs [#47603](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47603) [#47711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47711)  @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that an exception might occur when using the `QB_NAME` hint in a prepared statement [#46817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46817) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)

>     - Fix the issue of goroutine leak when using `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#46324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46324) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of Goroutine leak when using `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#46324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46324) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when shutting down [#32110](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32110) @[july2993](https://github.com/july2993)
    - Fix the issue of not handling locks in the MVCC interface when reading schema diff commit versions from the TiDB schema cache [#48281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48281) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Fix the issue of duplicate rows in `information_schema.columns` caused by renaming a table [#47064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47064) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the bugs in the `LOAD DATA REPLACE INTO` statement [#47995](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47995)) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue of `IMPORT INTO` task failure caused by PD leader malfunction for 1 minute [#48307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48307) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - Fix the issue of `ADMIN CHECK` failure caused by creating an index on a date type field [#47426]([https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47426]) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of `ADMIN CHECK` failure caused by creating an index on a date type field [#47426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47426) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.6 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the improvements and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.6.
---

# TiDB 6.5.6 Release Notes

Release date: December xx, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.6

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.6#version-list)

## Compatibility changes  **tw@qiancai --3 条**

- Prohibit setting [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) to `ON` in Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) to prevent potential connectivity issues for users [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
- (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Compatibility changes - Introduce the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v656) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

> - After further testing, the default value of the TiCDC Changefeed configuration item [`case-sensitive`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) is changed from `true` to `false`. This means that by default, table and database names in the TiCDC configuration file are case-insensitive. [#10047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10047) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

Author: ```suggestion
- After further testing, the default value of the TiCDC Changefeed configuration item [`case-sensitive`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) is changed from `true` to `false`. This means that by default, table and database names in the TiCDC configuration file are case-insensitive [#10047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10047) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

    - Fix the issue of possible syntax error when a common table expression (CTE) containing aggregate or window functions is referenced by other recursive CTEs [#47603](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47603) [#47711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47711)  @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that an exception might occur when using the `QB_NAME` hint in a prepared statement [#46817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46817) @[jackysp](https://github.com/jackysp)
    - Fix the issue of goroutine leak when using `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#46324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46324) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when shutting down [#32110](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32110) @[july2993](https://github.com/july2993)
    - Fix the issue of not handling locks in the MVCC interface when reading schema diff commit versions from the TiDB schema cache [#48281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48281) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

>     - 修复表改名重复错误 Fix the issue of duplicate rows in `information_schema.columns` caused by renaming a table [#47141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/47141)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of duplicate rows in `information_schema.columns` caused by renaming a table [#47141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/47141)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

>     - 修复表改名重复错误 Fix the issue of duplicate rows in `information_schema.columns` caused by renaming a table [#47141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/47141)@[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of duplicate rows in `information_schema.columns` caused by renaming a table [#47064](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47064) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
```

        - Fix the issue that the replication lag becomes longer due to too many NFS files when replicating data to an object storage service [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC server might panic when replicating data to an object storage service [#10137](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10137) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that TiCDC accesses the invalid old address during PD scaling up and down [#9584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9584) @[fubinzh](https://github.com/fubinzh) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that fetching wrong memory information might cause OOM issues in some operating systems [#9762](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9762) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.6 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the improvements and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.6.
---

# TiDB 6.5.6 Release Notes

Release date: December xx, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.6

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.6#version-list)

## Compatibility changes  **tw@qiancai --2 条**

> - 经进一步的测试后，TiCDC 配置项 [`case-sensitive`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) 默认值由 `true` 改为 `false`，即默认情况下 TiCDC 配置文件中涉及的表名、库名大小写不敏感 [#10047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10047) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
> - 在 SEM 模式下禁止设置 `require_secure_transport` 为 `ON` [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
> - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Compatibility changes - Introduce the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v656) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

Author: ```suggestion
- 在安全增强模式 (SEM) 下禁止设置 [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-从-v610-版本开始引入) 为 `ON`，避免用户无法连接的问题 [#47665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47665) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
- (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Compatibility changes - Introduce the [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/system-variables#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v656) system variable to control whether the optimizer selects hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
- 经进一步的测试后，TiCDC Changefeed 配置项 [`case-sensitive`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) 默认值由 `true` 改为 `false`，即默认情况下 TiCDC 配置文件中涉及的表名、库名大小写不敏感 [#10047](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10047) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
- TiCDC Changefeed 新增以下配置项：
    - [`encoding-worker-num`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) 和 [`flush-worker-num`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md)：你可以根据不同的机器规格，设置 redo 模块不同的并发参数 [#10048](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10048) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
    - [`compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md)：你可以设置 redo log 文件的压缩行为 [#10176](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10176) [#10176](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10176) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
    - [`sink.cloud-storage-config`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md)：你可以设置同步数据到对象存储时自动清理历史数据的功能 [#10109](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10109) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

## Improvements

+ TiKV **tw@Oreoxmt --1 条**

    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Improvements> TiKV - Optimize the compaction mechanism: when a Region is split, if there is no key to split, a compaction is triggered to eliminate excessive MVCC versions [#15282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15282) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM [#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Add the `alive` and `leak` monitoring dimensions for the `apply_router` and `raft_router` metrics [#15357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15357) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

+ PD **tw@qiancai --1 条**

>     - 为 DR Auto-Sync 添加 Status 和 Sync Progress 面板 [#6975](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6975) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add monitoring metrics such as `Status` and `Sync Progress` for `DR Auto-Sync` on the Grafana dashboard [#6975](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6975) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) **tw@qiancai --4 条**

        - (dup): release-7.5.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - During restoring a snapshot backup, BR retries when it encounters certain network errors [#48528](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48528) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - 增加 pitr 对 delete range 场景的集成测试 [#47738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47738) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Introduce new integration tests for Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR) for the `delete range` scenario, enhancing PITR stability  [#47738](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47738) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - 提供了 flashback cluster to tso 语法支持 [#48372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48372) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TSO` syntax [#48372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48372) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
```

>         - 快照恢复增加对 region 打散超时失败或者被取消情况下的重试 [#47236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47236) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Enable automatic retry of Region scatter during snapshot recovery when encountering timeout failures or cancellations of Region scatter [#47236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47236) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

>         - 使用 merge-schedule-limit 配置项来暂停 pd merge [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
        - BR can pause Region merging by setting the `merge-schedule-limit` configuration to 0  [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

    + TiCDC **tw@qiancai  --5 条**

>         - 增加 redo 模块的调优配置，用户可以根据不同的机器规格，设置不同的并发参数 [#10048](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10048) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
>         - 增加同步到对象存储时，用户可以设置自动清理历史数据的功能 [#10109](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10109) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
>         - 增加控制参数，可以设置 redo 文件的压缩算法 [#10176](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10176)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         - 增加控制参数，可以设置与标准的 canal-json 协议完全兼容的模式 [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json.md#compatible-with-official-canal-implementation) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration  [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - 修复创建日期型字段索引问题 [#47426]([https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47426]) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复 tablesample 未排序问题 [#48253](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48253) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复当 DDL jobID 恢复为 0 导致 TiDB 节点 panic [#46296](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46296) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

+ TiKV **tw@Oreoxmt --14 条**

    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that moving a peer might cause the performance of the Follower Read to deteriorate [#15468](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15468) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the data error of continuously increasing raftstore-applys [#15371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15371) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that requests of the TiDB Lightning checksum coprocessor time out when there is online workload [#15565](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15565) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>     - Upgrade the version of `lz4-sys` to 1.9.4 to fix security issues [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
>     - Upgrade the version of `tokio` to 6.5 to fix security issues [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
>     - Remove the `flatbuffer` that has security issues [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix security issues by upgrading the version of `lz4-sys` to 1.9.4  [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix security issues by upgrading the version of `tokio` to 6.5 [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Fix security issues by removing the `flatbuffer` [#15621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15621) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
```

>     - Accelerate the progress of resolved-ts when TiKV stores are partitioned [#15679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15679) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that resolved-ts lag increases when TiKV stores are partitioned [#15679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15679) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

>     - Fix the issue that historical peers remain and block resolved-ts after Regions are merged [#15919](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15919) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that stale peers are retained and block resolved-ts after Regions are merged [#15919](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15919) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the scheduler command variable is incorrect in Grafana on the cloud environment [#15832](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15832) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the scheduler command variables are incorrect in Grafana on the cloud environment [#15832](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15832) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

    - Fix the issue that `blob-run-mode` in Titan cannot be updated online [#15978](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15978) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV panics due to the metadata inconsistency between Regions [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV panics due to inconsistent metadata between Regions [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

+ TiFlash **tw@hfxsd --2 条**

    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `max_snapshot_lifetime` metric is displayed incorrectly on Grafana [#7713](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7713) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that executing the `ALTER TABLE ... EXCHANGE PARTITION ... ` statement causes panic [#8372](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8372) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that the memory usage reported by MemoryTracker is inaccurate [#8128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8128) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) **tw@hfxsd --5 条**

        - (dup): release-7.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that the log backup might get stuck in some scenarios when backing up large wide tables [#15714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15714) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that frequent flushes cause log backup to get stuck [#15602](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15602) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - Fix the issue that retries cause backup recovery performance to degrade after an EC2 metadata connection has been reset [#46750](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47650) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the retry after an EC2 metadata connection reset cause degraded backup and restore performance [#46750](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47650) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

        - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that running PITR multiple times within 1 minute might cause data loss [#15483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15483) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - Fix the issue that the default values for BR SQL commands and CLP are different, which might cause OOM issues [#48000](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48000) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the default values for BR SQL commands and CLI are different, which might cause OOM issues [#48000](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48000) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Fix the issue that log backup might panic when the PD owner is transferred [#47533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47533) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - Fix the issue of generating incorrect URIs for external storage files [#48452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48452) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR generates incorrect URIs for external storage files [#48452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48452) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    + TiCDC **tw@hfxsd --12 条**

        - Fix the issue that TiCDC server might panic when executing lossy DDL statements in upstream [#9739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9739) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that the replication task reports an error when executing `RESUME` with the redo log feature enabled [#9769](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9769) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that replication lag becomes longer when the TiKV node crashes [#9741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9741)
        - Fix the issue that the `WHERE` statement does not use the primary key as the condition when replicating data to TiDB or MySQL [#9988](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9988)
        - Fix the issue that the workload of a replication task is not distributed evenly across TiCDC nodes [#9839](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9839) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>         - Fix the issue that redo log can cause the TiCDC server to get stuck when NFS goes wrong [#9986](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9986) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer: 和开发老师确认后，删除了这条，相关 issue 还是 open 状态。
```suggestion
```

>         - Fix the issue that replication lag becomes longer when the TiKV node crashes [#9741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9741)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that replication lag becomes longer when the TiKV node crashes [#9741](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9741) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the `WHERE` statement does not use the primary key as the condition when replicating data to TiDB or MySQL [#9988](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9988)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the `WHERE` statement does not use the primary key as the condition when replicating data to TiDB or MySQL [#9988](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9988) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Fix the issue that the interval between replicating DDL statements is too long when redo log is enabled [#9960](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9960) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that the changefeed cannot replicate DML events in BDR mode if the target table is dropped and then recreated in upstream [#10079](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10079)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the changefeed cannot replicate DML events in bidirectional replication mode if the target table is dropped and then recreated in upstream [#10079](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10079) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the replication delay becomes longer due to too many NFS files when replicating data to an object storage service [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the replication lag becomes longer due to too many NFS files when replicating data to an object storage service [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

        - 快照恢复增加对 region 打散超时失败或者被取消情况下的重试 [#47236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47236) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - 使用 merge-schedule-limit 配置项来暂停 pd merge [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC **tw@qiancai  --5 条**

        - 增加 redo 模块的调优配置，用户可以根据不同的机器规格，设置不同的并发参数 [#10048](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10048) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 增加同步到对象存储时，用户可以设置自动清理历史数据的功能 [#10109](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10109) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 增加控制参数，可以设置 redo 文件的压缩算法 [#10176](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10176)
        - 增加控制参数，可以设置与标准的 canal-json 协议完全兼容的模式 [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Optimize the execution logic of replicating the `ADD INDEX` DDL operations to avoid blocking subsequent DML statements [#9644](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9644) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize impact of TiCDC on upstream TiKV when doing incremental scanning [#11390](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11390) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

```

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM skips partition DDLs in optimistic mode [#9788](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9788) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM cannot properly track upstream table schemas when skipping online DDLs [#9587](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9587) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that replication lag returned by DM keeps growing when a failed DDL is skipped and no subsequent DDLs are executed [#9605](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9605) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM skips all DMLs when resuming a task in optimistic mode [#9588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9588) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that data import fails when encountering the `write to tikv with no leader returned` error [#45673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45673) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that data import fails because HTTP retry requests do not use the current request content [#47930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47930) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning gets stuck during `writeToTiKV` [#46321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46321) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Remove unnecessary `get_regions` calls in physical import mode [#45507](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45507) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
```

        - BR can pause Region merging by setting the `merge-schedule-limit` configuration to 0  [#7148](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7148) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC **tw@qiancai  --5 条**

        - Support making TiCDC Canal-JSON content format [compatible with the content format of the official Canal output](/ticdc/ticdc-canal-json.md#compatible-with-official-canal-implementation) by setting `content-compatible=true` in the `sink-uri` configuration  [#10106](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10106) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Optimize the execution logic of replicating the `ADD INDEX` DDL operations to avoid blocking subsequent DML statements [#9644](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9644) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Optimize impact of TiCDC on upstream TiKV when performing incremental scanning [#11390](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11390) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>     + TiDB Data Migration (DM)
> 
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
> 
>     + TiDB Lightning
> 
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
> 
>     + Dumpling
> 
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup): release-7.4.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that DM skips all DMLs when resuming a task in optimistic mode [#9588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9588) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that data import fails when encountering the `write to tikv with no leader returned` error [#45673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45673) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that data import fails because HTTP retry requests do not use the current request content [#47930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47930) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning gets stuck during `writeToTiKV` [#46321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46321) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Remove unnecessary `get_regions` calls in physical import mode [#45507](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45507) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)

>     + Dumpling
> 
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
> 
>     + TiUP
> 
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
